# data-centers
Notebook 1: Electricity imports and sales
In this notebook, I used Energy Information Administration data to compare electricity imports to total electric utility supply in Indiana over time. To do this, I cleaned the data and created a column called ratio, where electricity imports for that year woould be divided by total supply, telling me the percentage of total supply that was imported. 
What I found was that electricity imports had gone up in the last decade or so, indicating that utilities were purchasing an increasing amount of power from the wholesale market. 
To see if this was a supply or demand problem, I plotted total net generation over time and saw Indiana's generation was in steep decline. My takeaway from that data was that utilities were turning to purchasing power because of a decline in supply. 

Notebook 2: Energy source analysis
In this notebook, I used a different table of EIA data to determine what energy sources were driving the decline. I cleaned the data and exported it to Flourish to see what I expected -- coal's decline was hitting the state hard, and natural gas had not made up the difference. Renewable sources like hydro, wind and solar were pretty much stagnant. This graph was important context for the Indiana General Assembly's push to incentivize SMRs, which could provide a more reliable source of power than solar, wind and hydro while satisfying big tech's preference for low-carbon energy sources.

Notebook 3: Electricity sales
In this notebook, I used another table of EIA data to look at prices per kilowatthour between the three main categories of utility customers: residential, commercial and industrial. Commercial and industrial customers typically pay lower rates because it's more efficient to deliver energy to them, but by cleaning the data (after first isolating the rows I was interested in in Excel) and exporting to Flourish, I noticed residential customers has received an average rate increase in the last year while industrial and commerical customers saw a decrease.

Data center power demand analysis
For this analysis I used 2021 data on peak summer demand and electric utility capacity that I got from Purdue's State Utility Forecasting Group's 2023 forecast as well as the EIA and compared it to the sum of the publicly known demand of data centers under construction or in progress. The latter value came from a live spreadsheet operated by Citizen's Action Coalition, which told me in an email that they source the power data from Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission proceedings and utility presentations. As of late April, there are nine prospective data centers with power data available; adding those values up and combining them with the 2021 capacity deficit (peak summer demand - electric utility capacity) shows Indiana would have to increase its capacity by over 50% to serve its 2021 peak summer demand + 9 data centers. These findings also match with what experts have told me.
